Adding an implicit wait in our code is actually quite easy to do,
and it's one of those things that you may not think about doing because you
don't experience it until you've actually had that problem.
You don't preemptively wait for things.
The Google Image search that we did earlier is one of those that sometimes
plagues people because of network latency or other issues.
Sometimes it is because they're not on a current version of Chrome.
There's a multitude of reasons as to why it could
occur for them and not for you.
But let's show you how to add that implicit wait inside of your app.
I'm going to open up our WebDriver demo, the very first demo that we did.
I'm going to make this full screen for a minute. And I'm going to go below
where we sent the enter keys and above where we grabbed that images link and
give myself a little bit of space. And I'm going to say WebDriverWait wait =
new WebDriverWait. And I'm going to pass into there driver, and I'm going to
say Duration.ofSeconds is 10. And then I want to say wait.until, and then
here we can pass in an ExpectedConditions of .presenceOfElementLocated
By.linkText.
So you can see it's very similar to all the other stuff that we've done
so far. And I'm going to say that I don't want you to try and proceed
until the images link is for sure there,
that that page has downloaded those images and that
link is available for me to click on.
So if you run into a situation where you're trying to select
something and it's not available on the page yet,
this is how you go about doing this. And this says that it'll wait
for a maximum of 10 seconds before it errors out.
But instead of it doing it immediately in like 100 ms or 2 or 300
ms, it says I'll keep checking for every 500 ms to see if that is
there, so give it half a second to see if it's there and then
proceed once it is there.
So let's save this, and you'll notice your test is going to
run very similar to how it did before.
You may not even notice any differences at all,
but it will have verified that that images link is available to click on
before proceeding. So I'm going to exit full screen, right‑click on main, and
say run WebDriverDemo, and it'll pull up my browser. And it completed the
test just as before, but with also verifying that that images link was, in
fact, available before it proceeded on. So it had a chance to get all of that
information on the page.
This is really useful if you're doing things with
JavaScript or you have a single‑page application that's
loading some things behind the scenes.
You've done some preemptive caching. This is a great technique to get around that.